Besides timers, the browser also has a couple of other nice objects or features it exposes to us in
Javascript, for example and I'll show you this in the console here,
there is the location object, it's on window.location and therefore as you learned, you can just access
it like this and if we have a look into it, we see that's an object with a couple of properties and methods
and they're all related to our URL and the page we're on. Location can be used to also navigate the
user away, for example by setting location ref equal to a new URL, something like academind.com
for example which is my own page,
if you now hit enter, you see we switch to that page.
You can also navigate with replace,
this is a method which you execute to which you pass a URL, the difference to setting ref is simply
that you can't go back because it will replace this page in that browser history which is in the end stored,
so the back button won't be able to go back to this page after you used replace. Another alternative
would be the assign method,
that's pretty much the same as setting the ref property and you can use both interchangeably depending
on whether you rather navigate by setting a property or by calling a method
and of course you got a couple of other properties and methods in there as well,
for example you got host which tells you on which host this page is running, since we serve this locally
from the files, we got no host there
but if you are on some other page, like academind.com for example, then you will see that host actually
gives you the domain here. You also got origin which is the full domain including the protocol which
was used, also the pathname which is the part after the domain
and here I'm just on slash nothing.
If I were on a list of all my courses and I would execute this, you would see that now I get this part
after the domain being logged here and this can be useful to find out where you are on the page in Javascript
for example,
a nice feature especially for more complex Javascript driven browser side applications where you might
want to render different content based on the path that was entered up there and you might want to control
the entire navigation through Javascript, something which is actually possible but beyond the scope of
this course and typically done with the help of Javascript frameworks,
something we'll always have a look at throughout this course. So that's the location object,
you also have window.history or just history
therefore. Now location and history kind of work together, location allows you to edit the browser history
by navigating around or by replacing the page, history then allows you to interact with that history,
for example you can call the back method to go back. So I could say location ref and set this equal to
academind.com and then there, we could call history back and be taken back to the page where we
came from.
So this for example allows you to move the user back to the page where he came from, a feature you might
have seen on some web pages where you are asked if you are old enough to visit the content,
don't know which pages could ask for something like this and then if you answer no I'm too young because
well, does anyone ever answer this?
I don't know but you click that no button, then the page might want to move you back where you came from,
you could do this with history back.
You also have history forward to go to the page you came from if you navigated back there and
you can also inspect the length of the history to find out how many steps the user did in this tab
of the browser, so how often
you went forward to a new page essentially, so how often you could go back therefore because you
also got history go to go back five steps in it history and take the user to the page he was on five
navigations ago so to say. So definitely feel free to play around with location history to get
a feeling for how you can move your users around. Be aware of course that moving users around is not
always giving them the best user experience though, so you want to do this with care.